---
layout: post
title: Do the thing!
---

When it comes to programming one can never truly become a master in this craft. If you're a developer too, I'm sure you can relate. Things are constantly changing; new frameworks, languages, and protocols are born almost everyday while existing technologies die out.

I think there is an innate part within us all that wants to break out on our own and make the next big thing. If this is you, here are some tips for your journey.

### Stop over analyzing your work.

Do or do not. There is no try. I can't tell you how much time I have wasted over analyzing things. My best work has always been a result of spontaneity. When I was just starting out my career fresh out college, I spent too much time trying to make my code as elegant and as general as possible. Rather than heading straight to my goal I meandered. I wanted to use all the correct patterns to ensure that my code was
going to perform and be maintainable for all the situations that I was going to encounter. The thing is, most of the situations that I coded for never happened, and I wasted a lot of time over engineering things. The problem with this approach was things are always in a state of change. My beautifully architected code ran into time consuming refactor over time consuming refactor because I kept trying to go after solutions that were outside of the problem domain. If there is anything that I've learned it is that you should take care of things as they arise and not waste your time overthinking all the things that are going to go wrong. If you care about your code you should write the code first - a lot of it - before you can critique. It's called refactoring for a reason. You can't refactor something that is not there in front of your so stop overthinking your approach and just go for it!

### Learning new technologies is fun, but don't allow yourself to get lost down the rabbit hole. 

If you're goal is to release a product and you've already put work into it, go the rest of the way using the technology that you started with. I cannot tell you how many times the progress of my projects have suffered because I choose to redo the same work using a new technology because I thought it was going to be better. This is exactly the same thought pattern that was discussed in over analyzing your work. Just get it done with the language and technology that you started with. Go back and redo it in another tech stack if and only if you encounter a problem that another technology is gonig to solve.

### Nobody cares how pretty your code is.

At the end of the day, what matters most is if your product works. More importantly, your product needs to generate revenue. As an engineer I like my work to be maintainable and clean. But in all seriousness the users don't care. They just care the end product. If you want to break out of your engineering cubicle and make it on your own you have to drop the Software Engineer mentality and stop being pedantic about the quality of code that you write. Does the product work? Is it stable and realitvely free of defects? If so, good, move on. 
